# Individual Capstone Assessment

From my academic perspective, my senior design project is about expressing and applying all of the knowledge, skills, and experiences I have acquired from my class and co-op experiences, focusing them into a project I am truly passionate and dedicated to. While my current classes and co-ops rarely covered the topics of programming language theory and development, the experiences I have had over my class and co-op semesters will help put my design and implementation into perspective. From all the classes that I have and/or are currently taking that discuss numerical approximation and scientific computing, I hope to best use the material they covered to further guide my design and implementation choices on this project.

Classes that have discussed topics pertaining to the area of focus for this project are Programming Languages (CS 3003), Numerical Analysis (MATH 5106), and Formal Languages and Automata Theory (CS 5170). CS 3003 covered many different programming paradigms and how different programming languages adhere to said paradigms. CS 3003 also covered basic lexers, parsers, and interpreters which are core aspects of a programming language compiler/interpreter. MATH 5106 covers many different techniques to analysis the accuracy of a numerical algorithm. This class has also shown me what support is needed from the programming language itself to be able to have good support for scientific computing. While this project will focus on creating a language for general computing purposes, the applications of context-oriented programming have many uses in scientific computing so it will still be a subarea of focus for the project. Lastly, CS 5170 talks about the theoretical and mathematical nature behind the foundation of programming languages: the language and grammar.

While none of my co-op experiences have dealt with programming language theory and design, the co-op experiences have shown me a great deal about the daily industrial use of languages. From my own work experience and the experience of others, I hope to be able to apply the lessons learned to improve the design, implementation, and documentation of my project. These experiences have better allowed for me to understand the needs of software developers when using a language that is design for a general application or domain specific applications. This would allow for me to better design the language to tackle the modern challenges faced by software and software developers in industry.

I am excited to work on this project because I believe there is an application of context-oriented programming that the current wider programming language community has not fully explored. Context is implicitly defined in many places in our lives, not just in code, and often times can lead to confusion and misinterpretation, especially in code. So I thought, why not make a language that explicitly defines contexts and their introduction into scope. Many modern programming tasks already have implicit context definitions, so explicitly stating them would greatly decrease the mental gymnastics required to read and write code. A main reason why I wanted to explore the requirement of explicitly stating context is because when writing code developers have so many tools to help them keep track of all of these implicit contexts (see IDEs such as Intellij or Visual Studio which have inlay hints, powerful refactoring tools, and goto definition/declaration functionality). When reading code, especially on the internet through github or other cloud hosting services, these tools may not exist and the burden of maintaining implicit context skyrockets. 

A programming language is ever evolving and may be considered never finished, but for the purposes of this senior design I hope to have a language that is turing complete, can be used for small to medium personal projects, and has a minimal standard library to handle many basic functionalities that are expected of a programming language (IO, Math, utility data structures). I also expect to maintain documentation to help explain and teach the programming language to those who are interested. I hope to be able to use this programming language to further my interests in programming language theory and development and numerical and scientific computing and allow me to express my code in a context-oriented manner.