# Project Constraints

The creation of the Koffect programming language, as with the creation of any programming language, has many constraints. The aim of this document is to highlight the initial constraints that are believed to play the biggest factor in the success of this project. The main constraints pertaining to this project are time, economic, professional, and ethical. As always with these types of documents, these are an initial guess of what types of constraints the project will face and cannot predict what constraints may arise once development is underway.

As for any project, time is always a factor. While this may be considered a universal constraint that is implicitly defined for all projects, it should still be called out for the Koffect project as programming languages are complex pieces of software that have many moving parts for them to considered mature. Not only does maturity require a working language compiler/interpreter and language runtime, but it also requires a wide range of batteries included through the standard library and first-party support libraries and APIs. Furthermore, in this modern era of programming languages, a language’s maturity is further defined by the ability for the language to bolster a community through the creation and maintenance of tooling such as a developer tooling (Language Server Protocol, Code Linter, Unit Test Frameworks), and build/distribution tooling (build system, dependency management, documentation generation). For this reason, while many of aforementioned pieces of software are not required for the project to be considered a successful deliverable, they are a major step into solidifying that the project has hit a level or maturity.

There are also economic constraints in play. Many of the later development milestones, such as a Language Server Protocol, plan to integrate into pre-defined well-established ecosystems, a framework or library is required to cut down on the amount of grunt work. While these later milestones could be hand-rolled, utilization of free and open-source frameworks and libraries to implement many of the finer details in creating these milestones will be of great help. Furthermore, the economic constraints also play into the ethical constraints as well. Since this project will be utilizing other free and open-source software, the project itself will be under a free and open-source license (GNU General Public License v3.0). This license will is not a restrictive license by any means, however, it may conflict with other licenses which may lead to restrictions on what other open-source software can be utilized for this project. Furthermore, the license allows for public and private distribution. As this project is a programming language without accompanying software, it does not make sense to lock the software behind a paywall. All that is asked when distributing is acknowledgement of the project. Lastly, the project license will not transfer warranty and liability from the distributed software, therefore this project may not be held responsible for any malicious acts and applications created from the use of this programming language.

Finally, the last major constraint affecting the project are professional constraints. I first and foremost do not have any professional development experience in programming languages development, compilers software, or interpreters software. Therefore, this project, if successful, would prove my credibility in this field professionally. I, however, must note I have delved into this area of software development personally on my own time, but the fact still remains I do not have formal academic or industrial experience in the topic. In terms of needed expertise, most of the concepts pertaining to design and implementation are fairly ad-hoc and subjective. Therefore, differing perspectives may be requested from the Programming Languages Discord or Reddit as well from my project advisor and professors who teach the compilers course at UC. 

As a final note, this is an initial guess of the constraints faced by this project and therefore are not guaranteed to be accurate. More constraints may appear further down the line during development and maintenance, or a misunderstanding may be present and reevaluation of constraints may occur down the line as well. Furthermore, in regards to the license and ethical constraints, I am not a lawyer nor have had any formal legal and law training, so do not take this document as legal advice. Please always first talk to a lawyer. If you are looking to use this project and are unsure if it is valid use, please refer yourself to the formal LICENSE file in this repository. If after that you are still confused, please do not hesitate to reach out to get in contact.